CSS manipulation becomes way
easier with the new CSS typed
model object.
Access to the clipboard
is now asynchronous,
and there's a new rendering
context for Canvas elements.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 66.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If you've ever updated a
CSS property via JavaScript,
you've used the
CSS object model.
But it returns
everything as a string.
To animate the
opacity property, I'd
have to cast the
string to a number,
then increment the value
and apply my change.
Not exactly ideal.
With the new CSS
typed object model,
CSS values are exposed as
typed JavaScript objects,
eliminating a lot of
the type manipulation
and providing a much more
sane way of working with CSS.
Instead of using
element.style, you
access the styles through
attributestylemap property
or stylemap.
They return a
map-like object that
makes it really easy
to read or update.
Compared to the old
CSS object model,
early benchmarks show
about a 30% improvement
in operations per second.
That's something that's
especially important
when you're doing
JavaScript animations.
It also helps to
eliminate bugs caused
by forgetting to cast the value
from a string to a number.
And it automatically handles
rounding and clamping
of values.
Plus, there are some
pretty neat new methods
for dealing with unit
conversions, arithmetic,
and equality.
Eric has a great post and
several demos and examples
in his explainer linked
below in the description.
Synchronous copy and paste
using document.execCommand
can be OK for
small bits of text.
But for anything else,
there's a good chance
that its synchronous nature
will block the page, causing
a poor experience for the user.
And the permission model between
browsers is inconsistent.
The new Async Clipboard
API is a replacement
that works, asynchronously, and
integrates with the permissions
API to provide a better
experience for users.
Tags can be copied to the
clipboard by calling writetext.
Since the API is asynchronous,
the writetext function
returns a promise that will
be resolved or rejected,
depending on whether
we were successfully
able to copy the text.
Similarly, text can be
read from the clipboard
by calling readtext and waiting
for the returned promise
to resolve with the text.
Check out Jason's post and
demos in the explainer linked
in the description.
He's also got a
great set of examples
that use Async functions.
The canvas element lets
you manipulate graphics
at a pixel level.
You could draw graphs,
manipulate photos, even do
real-time video processing.
But unless you're starting
with a blank canvas,
you need a way to render
an image onto that canvas.
Historically, that's meant
creating an image tag,
then rendering its
content onto the canvas.
Unfortunately, that
means the browser
needs to store multiple
copies of the image in memory.
Starting in Chrome 66, there's
a new asynchronous rendering
context that streamlined
the display of image bitmap
objects.
They now render more
efficiently and with less jank
by working asynchronously and
avoiding memory duplication.
I just need to call
createimagebitmap and hand it
an image blob to
create the image.
Then grab the bitmap prerender
context from the canvas
and transfer the
image in, and done.
I've created and
rendered the image.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 66
for developers.
And of course,
there's plenty more.
Textarea and select now support
the autocomplete attribute.
Setting autocapitalize
on a form element
will apply to any
child form field,
improving compatibility
with Safari's implementation
of autocapitalize.
And trimstart and
trimend are now
available as the standard based
way of trimming whitespace
from strings.
All the details, including links
to the docs, specs, and more
are in the description below.
And be sure to check out the
latest New In Chrome DevTools
video to learn what's
new in DevTools.
If you're interested in
Progressive Web Apps,
check out the PWA
roadshow video series.
Then click the Subscribe
button and you'll
get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage.
And as soon as Chrome
67 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.